---
title: Networks
layout: post
author: jack.morgan2
permalink: /networks/
source-id: 1msij3aHrM_SdwcXNX9-GjUxIHRl9kYJQyetr3HNhZpM
published: true
---
Today we were looking at the internet and how it works. This included:

* What the World Wide Web is

* What IP address' are

* The concept of packet exchange

* What a DHCP is

* IPv6

* IPv4

* DNS

* How URLs are formed - TLDs

World Wide Web: The World Wide Web is a collection of web pages connected through the internet. It has no central storage, is owned by no one and can be accessed by anyone with an internet connected device. Web Pages are identified with a URL.

IP Address: An IP address is like any other address in the fact that it identifies the specific device in a mass of others. IP addresses are essential to packet exchange and are unique to every single device or server or webpage. There are now two types. IPv4 is a series of 4 decimal numbers such as 217.32.114.185. An IPv6 address is a series of hexadecimal numbers and were created due to a rise in internet connected devices. For example, 2001:0db8:0000:0042:0000:8a2e:0370:7334 

Packet Exchange: To send data across the internet, the file is broken down into packets which are like parcels. The packets are numbered and labelled with the sender's IP and the receiver’s IP. The packets are then reassembled at the receivers device.

DHCP: Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol assigns IP addresses when they are requested by the device.

DNS: Domain Name System is a system which acts like a telephone book. Since URLs are more easily remembered that IP addresses, when the URL is entered into the address bar, the device checks the URL with the DNS and send back the IP which is what the device connects to.

URLs: Uniform Resource Locators are addresses of web pages that are more easily remembered than IP addresses and use DNS to find the actual location of the requested page. They are formed using many parts. E.g.

<table>
  <tr>
    <td>WWW.</td>
    <td>CHALLONERS</td>
    <td>.ORG</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>This tells us that the web page is located on the World Wide Web.</td>
    <td>The name of the web page</td>
    <td>DOMAIN - Tells us that the website is owned by a non-commercial organisation</td>
  </tr>
</table>


<table>
  <tr>
    <td>www.</td>
    <td>jfk</td>
    <td>.herts</td>
    <td>.sch</td>
    <td>.uk</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>World Wide Web</td>
    <td>Web page name </td>
    <td>Located in Hertfordshire</td>
    <td>Is a school</td>
    <td>In the UK</td>
  </tr>
</table>


TLDs: Top Level Domains include 

<table>
  <tr>
    <td>.uk</td>
    <td>UK TLD</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>.gov</td>
    <td>Government website</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>.com</td>
    <td>Commercial Website</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>.org</td>
    <td>Non-commercial organisation</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>.sch/.edu</td>
    <td>School</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>.fr</td>
    <td>France TLD</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>.es</td>
    <td>Spain TLD</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>.it</td>
    <td>Italy TLD</td>
  </tr>
</table>


